Constructs in Python programming language that instruct the interpreter to perform a certain function involving two or more variables upon which the construct operates are called python operators. Though not actually seen as functions, they have their own identity as concepts because they are different syntactically and semantically from functions. It performs tasks of various nature, including arithmetic, bitwise, membership, identity, comparison, assignment, and logic, etc., with a certain order of execution existing among them.
Operators in python are constructs in Python that instruct the interpreter to perform a certain function; however, these are traditionally not defined as functions; rather, they are syntactically and semantically different from functions. Operators are used to performing operations on variables and values according to their use.
Arithmetic operators are used to performing mathematical operations
Refers to the operators working on a bit, i.e. they treat the operand as a string of bits; for example, in bitwise operations, 5 will be considered as 0101.
Refers to the operators used in the validation of membership of operand test in a sequence, such as strings, lists, or tuples. There are two types of membership operators in python
Used to compare the operands’ memory locations, they are quite often used to determine if the operand is of a particular type; there are two types of identity operators in python.
Also known as Relational operators, these operators are used in determining the relation between the operand on either side of the operator.
Referred as the name suggests, it is used to declare assignments to the operands; the following are the types of assignment operators in python.
Logical operators are used to perform similar operations as that of logical gates; there are 3 types of logical operators in python.
Operator precedence is the priority in which operators are considered in python. The role of operators is when expressions are used. the expressions are a combinative use of variables, functions, values, and operators. All these elements combine to form valid expressions. and the precedence in which the operators need to be used in these expressions is determined by the operator precedence rule in python. This rule helps to evaluate the expressions and verify the order in which the operations are carried out in these expressions.