Built-in functions are pre-defined in the programming language’s library, for the programming to directly call the functions wherever required in the program for achieving certain functional operations. A few of the frequently used built-in function in the Python programs are abs(x) for fetching the absolute value of x, bin() for getting the binary value, bool() for retrieving the boolean value of an object, list() for lists, len() to get the length of the value, open() to open the files, pow() for returning the power of a number, sum() for fetching the sum of the elements, reversed() for reversing the order, etc.
abs(x) returns the absolute value of a number. In case a complex number is passed, the magnitude of that number is returned. It is the same as the distance from the origin of a point on an x-y graph.
all(x) is the same as logical ‘and’ operator. That means it will return true if all variables in the iterator are true. Here iterable objects are referred to as tuple, lists, dictionary.A variable is said to be true in python if it is non-zero and not NONE. Here NONE is a keyword defined in python that is considered null. For example if iterable ‘item’ contains value ‘2,4,5,6,1’ – Result will be true .
To interact with users, either to retrieve data or to showcase a notification/warning/result, you need a way out in the form of a reusable set of instructions, mostly referred to as functions. Python provides developers with a below-mentioned set of two built-in functions that can be used for reading the user fed input from the peripheral devices like keyboard etc.
raw_input ( “Message/Output”) function is specific to the older version of python that is python 2.x It reads the exact information typed by the user & stores it into the specific variable that we want to by converting that info into a string.
input ( “Message/Output”) function is specific to the newer version of python that is python 3.x and so on. In Python 3.x, the raw_input() function has been altered with the input() function, so the only difference between these two functions is the Python version you are using it with. It also serves the same purpose. Once the user enters the information, the input function evaluates the data type of that function and saves it to the specified variable.
